It's really starting
to come down out here.
NEZU: Looks like the forecast
was a little off.
Forecasts and predictions,
warnings, expectations, plans, prophecies.
There is nothing that tries to guess
the events of the future that's reliable.
You sure it's under here?
HIZURU: Yep. And I've got
a bad feeling about it.
Let's hope that's just as unreliable.
(thunder rumbles)
-(Sou panting)
-Keep running!
Don't stop!
(thrilling music)
-(screeching)
-(Sou grunts)
Damn it.
(panting)
(grunts)
Looks like they're only
going after Ushioh.
SHINPEI: They're ignoring me,
they aren't attacking me at all.
(gasps)
Ushioh!
(whimpering)
Does your arm hurt?
SHINPEI: Crap, we can't go any further.
Get out of here! Get back!
Sou!
(screeching)
Whoa, nice! Is this why
you brought the pesticide?
Oh, yeah! Just like I thought.
They're afraid of fire, it scatters them.
Are you okay, Ushioh?
We can still go back if you want.
USHIOH: Forget that, I'm fine.
Let's just keep going. I've never been
one to leave things unfinished!
That's what I thought.
Shinpei! I'll open up a path for you.
Just take care of Ushioh.
You got it. Here we go!
(water sloshing)
Whoa, Ryunosuke! Will you warn me
next time you're 'bout to shoot!
Right in my damn ear!
Sorry about that. But another second,
and you would be dead.
(groans)
NEZU: Can't believe all these shadows
are just lurking around down here,
under the island.
Right, we need to be careful.
There are more of them.
Their nest is close.
(theme music)
FEMALE VOICE: The number you have dialed
is disconnected
-or out of your coverage area.
-Uh... Huh?
Please hang up...
#11 FEEDING TIME
MIO: Where is Shin-chan?
Last time I saw him,
he went out to see Sou.
And now I can't reach Sou,
or Tokiko, either.
Shin-chan. Just please come home soon.
MIO: The shadow sickness took
my big sister, just like it took Shiori.
It can't happen to Shin-chan, too.
Huh?
Hmm?
Isn't this one of Shiori's hair ties?
-SHADOW SHIORI: Over here.
-MIO: Huh?
SHADOW SHIORI:
Shinpei's down here. Come on.
Huh? Wait! Hang on!
(whimpers)
Hey, watch out! Mi... Mio that you?
Oh, Tetsu, hi. So sorry about that.
You can't just jump out like that.
What's going on? You look pale.
I... It was Shiori, I swear.
Didn't you see her? She was right there.
What? So you found her?
Where is she? Huh, where?
She ran away in the direction
you came from.
What, no way, all I saw
was you running right toward me.
(Mio gasps)
(ominous music)
That's Shiori!
Huh!?
(Mio gasps)
She... disappeared.
Hey wait up.
-TETSU: That's weird. The lid is loose.
-(gasps)
SHADOW SHIORI:
Shinpei's down here. Come on.
MIO: What does that mean?
Is Shin-chan really down there?
BOTH: Hmm...
Um...
Hm? No! Not a chance!
No, no, no! No way she's down there.
There's no way a little girl
would open this up
and climb down on her own.
Normally, I'd say you're right.
MIO: But what if it was Shiori's shadow?
-Tetsu...
-TETSU: Hell, no.
MIO: But I haven't even said anything yet!
I know what you're thinking.
You want me to go down there,
that's it, isn't it?
Well, you can forget it, I'm a busy man.
I was just on my way
to the city for drinks.
I don't wanna smell
like a sewer for Erika.
You'd rather go to a bar
than save someone?
TETSU: Ugh, no, but does it have
to be this person?
-MIO: You'd be a hero, though.
-TETSU: Huh?
MIO: If you found the missing girl,
you'd be all over the news.
Everyone would know your name.
You'd become famous overnight.
Erika would totally fall in love with you.
But that's up to you, I guess.
I'm going in there with you
or without you, okay?
-I'll go first, follow me.
-(gasps)
Look, I'm not doing this to be
a hero and get girls, don't get me wrong.
I'm a humble public servant
in pursuit of justice.
And I won't rest until we find Shiori.
Mm. Great, glad you're on board.
MIO: I guess being superficial
beats doing nothing.
TETSU:
Hey, that's a little harsh, Mio-chan.
(all panting)
SHINPEI: Do you think we lost them?
Yeah, but what...
what the hell is this place?
It looks even weirder than where we were.
Yeah, look at this. That's so strange.
Huh?
SHINPEI: There's coral down here.
What's that much coral
doing so far from the water?
They're shadows.
Wait, what?
The coral reefs, the sea anemone,
the barnacles, they're all shadows.
(gasps)
Who would do something like this?
I don't know, but someone decided
to copy the ocean here.
It's saltwater. This must be connected
to the ocean somehow.
Shinpei, we need to start looking
for another way out.
This is getting too dangerous. Shinpei?
Look, I'm out of gas, too.
-(Ushioh breathing heavily)
-If we get attacked again, it's over.
-(gasps)
-(stomach rumbling)
(Ushioh groaning)
Hey... Hey, Ushioh?
I... I'm okay.
I think I'm just hungry, actually.
What? Are you serious right now?
Didn't we just eat like an hour ago?
That's not the hunger she means.
She struggling with something else.
SHINPEI: It's your right arm.
It isn't healed, is it?
USHIOH: This is damage from my real body.
And I need to eat
if it's ever going to fully heal.
SOU: Then Shinpei can just give you
another rice ball.
No, that's not...
I don't mean normal food.
In order to repair this,
I'd have to rescan the original first.
But Ushio's body was cremated.
I'll never be able
to fully recover from this.
SOU: Are... Are you serious?
SHINPEI: So you've been dealing
with this pain in your arm the whole time?
Ever since Mioh stabbed you?
I guess I wasn't sure. Till now.
Why didn't you tell us? This is important!
I'm sorry. I'll... I'll just erase
my right arm for now.
I think that'll stop the pain.
SHINPEI:
Is there really no way to heal it?
That can't be right.
She's getting weaker.
Damn it, I just can't let her die again.
What if I loop back?
But how would that heal the wound?
Would that work?
-WOMAN: Stay right there.
-(gasps)
TOKIKO: Now, turn around slowly.
If you turn away
or make any sudden movements,
Ushioh won't make it out of here alive.
What... Uh... What the hell
are you doing here?
SOU: Tokiko!
HIZURU: It's a dead end.
Looks like shadows went through here.
Only they could get through this way.
Well, now we know one thing.
Shadows have been using
these sewers and tunnels
to make their way around the island.
Mm. No doubt about that at this point.
The army dug a lot
of these tunnels in this area.
So many that no one knows
the entire layout anymore.
God only knows how many
of these passages there are down here.
So what do we do now?
We don't have any way
to cut these bars, do we?
Should we go back up
and find another way in?
HIZURU: Based on the map,
we're right in the center of the island.
No. There probably isn't
a single entrance a human can use.
This place wasn't made with us in mind.
NEZU: I mean, just look.
This isn't a sewer. It's a natural cave.
I'm sure it was always here.
It can't be man-made.
Guess it seems
like Hiruko's grotto really existed.
Huh?
My gramps first told me about it
when I was a kid.
NEZU: He said there was this
massive underground cave in Hitogashima.
They call it Hiruko's grotto.
Up until the middle of the Meiji era,
there was a single entrance to the grotto
that only appeared during low tide,
but the army blocked it off
as a defensive measure,
sometime during
the First Sino-Japanese War.
Hiruko's grotto is an island legend.
Until now, I thought it was just a myth.
But they say,
it's where our guardian god Hiruko lived
after his parents pushed him out to sea
and he drifted to Hitogashima.
We should talk to my sister.
She knows all about Hiruko's Lore.
Should we switch?
No, not right now. That's all right.
NEZU: We can always ask
that Karikiri boy first.
I just wish his old man was still alive.
He might've known something.
Anyway, let's start heading back now,
grab the tools and...
Wait. Be quiet.
Come on! Why don't we just go back?
There's no way in hell
she'll be down here.
Come on, you know it was Shiori up there.
Don't pretend you didn't see her.
Ugh, god, but now I smell
like some kinda sewer rat.
Ugh, I'm gonna have to take a bath
before I go out.
Don't worry,
I'll fill Erika in on the whole thing.
I'll tell her how manly
and brave you were.
Wait, really? You will?
-BOTH: Uh...
-MIO: It's Shiori!
(sighs)
Wait a sec. What the...
How did she get
on the other side like that?
(zapping)
(groans, gasps)
Nah-nah!
Whoa. Wait, stop!
What is this?
Are we dreaming or something?
-Hm!
-Wait, you're going?
TETSU: Mio, wait. Hold on. I...
My new loafers are really expensive!
Hey, I think that was...
Mio Kofune and that cop,
Officer Tetsu Totsumura.
My sister might've been right
about that feeling she had.
I wouldn't follow them. It's a trap.
Yeah, you're right.
At least we know that Mio's human.
She's immune.
(scoffs)
Who knows? I guess we'll find out.
NEZU: Won't be long now.
Tokiko.
I'm surprised you made it this far,
trespassing like this, brother.
What is this? What...
What's going on? Tokiko!
SHINPEI: She's too far.
The nailgun won't reach her.
SOU: What the hell
are you doing down here, Tokiko?
-TOKIKO: Dumb question.
-What do you mean?
TOKIKO: I'm recovering damaged goods.
And you brought Ushioh right to me.
Thanks for that.
Now that she's hurt like that,
she's been tough to find.
SHINPEI: She's getting closer and closer.
Three more steps and I got her.
Don't worry,
we'll take care of her from here.
SHINPEI: I won't let you touch Ushioh!
Get away from her!
Come on. Just stay put.
(giggling)
(gasps)
Oh, my god! Do you see this, Shinpei?
USHIOH: Tokiko...
That's just too bad. Huh, Shinpei?
(gasps)
Turns out I'm human.
You can kill shadows,
but not other humans, right?
Are you... Are you really Tokiko?
How about we chat for a little bit?
Sorry for the delay. Apologies, Negoro.
SHADOW NEGORO: How may I help, doctor?
DR. HISHIGATA: You can go ahead
and add this to today's feed.
It's almost nine o'clock.
Just hurry up and take it over there.
SHADOW NEGORO: Yes, doctor. I understand.
Hmm...
(grunting)
(breathing sharply)
SHINPEI: We surrender.
Wait, no, Shinpei!
USHIOH: Sou!
Listen, Shinpei's right, okay?
It sucks, I know,
but we just can't win this time.
Now, don't do anything stupid,
okay, brother?
-(grunts)
-Go grab her.
(grunting)
Ushioh! Damn it! Stop it, Tokiko!
Sou. Calm down.
Huh?
If she wanted to kill her,
she'd already be dead.
She just wants to take Ushioh with her.
Am I right, Tokiko?
SHINPEI: I haven't figured this out.
Not yet, anyway.
If I can take her silence as a "yes,"
then I think we still have a chance.
-I'm sorry, Ushioh.
-(groaning)
You just gotta hang in there
a little longer.
What're you doing? Taking her to your dad?
Oh! I get it, Tokiko.
Is Dad making you do all this?
TOKIKO: You're so clueless, big brother.
That was inevitable.
Dad didn't choose you, after all.
Sorry about that.
What?
(mutters)
If you've already seen this much,
there's no point in hiding it anymore.
TOKIKO: Guess this is a chance
to show you everything.
(gasps)
For starters,
please put all your weapons down.
I'll show you if you cooperate.
TOKIKO: I don't want to have
to do anything drastic.
Don't put up a fight,
just come along with me.
Hiruko is waiting for all of us.
Five degrees to the right.
You're gonna miss. To your right.
Put a sock in it!
-(yelling)
-Don't worry about me.
Okay, forget it.
Just focus on your own targets, will ya?
Well, we definitely lost track of Mio.
Think she's okay?
NEZU: Now's not the time
to be worried about other people.
Just look around.
What the hell is this place?
Looks like the bottom of the sea.
I think that's a Doflein sea anemone.
Dofle... What was it?
They live deep underwater.
I saw one on some nature show once.
They're not adapted to survive on land.
I guess these are all shadows.
-NEZU: Mm. Whoa!
-HIZURU: Look out!
Got a bad feeling about this.
(pants)
NEZU: For god's sake. Haven't you killed
that thing twice already?
Why's it still here?
Will it ever die?
And you? Are you not surprised at all?
Sorry to disappoint, but it makes sense
that you didn't really die.
HIZURU: You must've just decided
to play dead,
and then dove underground, is that right?
My sister was suspicious of the sewers.
I'd expect that from Hizuru.
Did you come back just to get in my way?
I told you I'd kill you
if I ever saw you again.
I guess you wouldn't know,
would you, Ryunosuke Minakata?
-NEZU: Wait a minute.
-No.
NEZU: How do you know that name?
SHADOW SHIORI: Remember that one time
when we talked in the kid's room?
Well, I figured that you
just hid inside Hizuru.
No way. Heine?
(gasps)
FOUR-ARM: It's been 14 years
since we last saw each other.
But I'm not interested in you.
You're just a personhood
and a series of memories.
Your body, on the other hand, where is it?
-(gasps)
-Tell me, where is the body
that stole Mother's right eye?
HIZURU: Heine, are you really doing this?
Are you playing these games again?
This time, you're using
Shiori Kobayakawa's memory.
(zapping)
HIZURU: He blocked it.
That shot should've hit.
I just read her memory.
Neither Hizuru nor Ryunosuke
knows where the body is.
But I can't read the old man.
FOUR-ARM: Can I kill him?
Go ahead.
Let's get outta here, Ryunosuke.
We can't take them.
You've gotta be kidding me.
Don't you understand!?
They're here for us, we're being hunted!
NEZU: They're not shadows of human beings.
They're something much, much worse.
We gotta get out of here!
Watch it, be careful.
(coughs)
He's off by just a little bit.
I think he's about two full seconds ahead.
Yes. I can see that now.
Ryunosuke!
-(groans)
-(gasps)
(dramatic music)
There. One down.
(explosions)
-(Nezu groans)
-HIZURU: No, Nezu!
-Goddamn you!
-(gunshots)
Oh?
-(Hizuru grunts)
-Over there, huh?
-(gunshot)
-(groans)
(retches)
Ah, so close.
Not easy to hit something
when it's a full two seconds ahead.
You going after him?
There's no need for that.
Look at this. The blood is thick and dark.
He'll be dead soon.
I hit him right in the liver.
Where are Ushio and Shinpei?
I can feel them getting close,
but don't worry.
I sent two stray shadows with Tokiko.
But more importantly,
I'm starting to get really hungry.
I don't think I can wait
till nine o'clock.
(water churning)
USHIOH: Damn it,
I feel so weak and helpless.
Shinpei gave up his weapon
and surrendered to her.
He must've decided not to loop back again
before getting to the truth.
He's trying to go as far
as he can this time. Right, Shinpei?
(rumbling)
Ugh! That wasn't me, okay?
That was Hiruko. She must be very hungry.
(rumbling)
TOKIKO: I've accepted who I am
and what I've done. That's the truth.
I won't ask for forgiveness.
All I want is for all of you
to see for yourselves and understand.
You know, brother, Dad doesn't want you
to know anything about this.
(quivers)
TOKIKO: I'm not going to make you swear
not to tell anyone,
you couldn't, even if you wanted to.
But please, listen, Shinpei.
Whatever you do, don't tell Mio.
I don't want her to find out
about what you saw here.
I swear I won't get Mio involved in this.
Okay, thank you. You're so kind, Shinpei.
(gasps)
SHINPEI: A long, looming shadow
stretches to the ceiling.
At the foot of that shadow...
(rumbling)
Finally, it's nine o'clock sharp.
That means it's time for me to eat.
(closing theme music)